Written by Radovan Garabík <garabik @ kassiopeia.juls.savba.sk>
For new versions, look at http://kassiopeia.juls.savba.sk/~garabik/software/pycmail.html


WARNING: this program fiddles with your mail. You can lose your mail.
         Locking of mailboxes has been notoriously known for not being 
         twice reliable.
         Especially for mailboxes on NFS.
         You can use maildir instead, it does not have locking problems.
         But you can lose your mail anyway.
         On top of this, pycmail is in active development.
         It can have bugs.
         You have been warned.
         Do not blame me if you lose your mail.


A bit of terminology:
MTA - mail transport agent. Sometimes called mail daemon, the program 
responsible for sending, receiving and delivering mail.
Some well-known MTAs are: sendmail, exim, qmail, postfix, smail, zmailer

pycmail should be invoked automatically from the .forward file 
when mail arrives. 

put following into your .forward:

|/usr/bin/pycmail


When invoked, it reads the beginning of mail message from stdin, and then
it executes a file named $HOME/.pycmailrc. This file is a regular python
program, for further description see README.python if you can program in
python, and README.nopython if you can't.

According to the commands in this file, the mail message that just arrived
gets distributed into the right folder, gets forwarded, discarded, or piped
to an external program. If no .pycmailrc is found, or processing of the
.pycmailrc falls off the end, pycmail will store the mail in the default
system mailbox. 

Requirements: pycmail can deliver mails either to maildir
(http://cr.yp.to/proto/maildir.html), or ordinary BSD mailboxes. For
maildirs, no other programs are required (apart from mail user agent
capable of working with maildirs, such as mutt). For safe locking of
BSD-style mailboxes pycmail uses lockfile(1) from the procmail package. You
should install procmail first.

For performance reason, the message is _not_ read whole into the memory
(unlike procmail), rather it is read in chunks, and the chunks are
immediately delivered. That means you have access only to the first
chunk in .pycmailrc. You can modify the size of the  chunks, and the
size of message body read after headers in /etc/pycmailrc. Default of
1000 bytes is fine, longer messages are usually junk anyway, and you can
find out if they are junk out of their beginning, there is no need to
suck 10 MB mp3 file in the memory before processing.

This has a small disadvantage: if you are delivering mail to multiple
destinations, and one of them blocks (say, you are delivering to a
mailbox over nfs and the network goes down), all the other destinations
are blocked until the blocked chunk is completed (or timeouts).

Currently pycmail recognizes these command line switches:
-d debuglevel
-t
-c conffile
    the name of alterantive user configuration file
    (instead of ~/.pycmailrc)

Any other argument is taken as the file name to read mail from, instead
of standard input. You can specify more files, each of them has to contain 
one message.
(TODO: make these files mailboxes and loop over messages)

Default debuglevel is 0, which means pycmail tries to deliver mail in an
almost foolproof way: if there is any error in ~/.pycmailrc file, mail will
be delivered to the default mailbox (such as /var/spool/mail/USERNAME). But
you will have hard time finding out where exactly is the error, if it does
not deliver mail where you want.

If the debuglevel is 1, any error in ~/.pycmailrc file will be printed,
resulting in bounced mail (but pycmail will still try to deliver the mail
to default mailbox).

The bigger the debuglevel, the more detailed information is printed.

Levels equal or higher than 2 are not suitable for actual usage, because
they generate a lot of output, which results in bounced mails. You can
use it if you do e.g. postprocessing of messages, or testing your
configuration.

You can log delivery of messages by specifying logging file by 
including logfile = open("/path/to/logfile.log","a") at the 
beginning of your ~/.pycmailrc

If the -t option is used, pycmail will just print what would it do with
the mail, the mail will be then discarded and no actual delivery will be
done. Use this for testing purposes.


To test your configuration, do something like this: 
formail -s pycmail -d 2 -t < your_test_mailbox_file  

 
